Eureka3.0 
Varroc  Innovation Hackathon 
Company Website: www.varroc.com
Scan to Explore 
Eureka3.0
Complete registration and Idea submission at : Eureka Challenge 3.0 - 2026
To Share Ideas, 


Download 
Eureka 
Mobile App
Access from your 
phone/desktop
https://unstop.co
m/competitions/cr
p-eureka-
challenge-30-
varroc-1648164
Register 
Yourself 
Log in and 
subscribe to 
the challenges.
Give in your 
creative ideas 
to the 
problem 
statements
Brainstorm and 
find solution on 
challenges.
Chance to 
Meet Varroc 
Leadership 
team
Present your 
idea in big 
platform
Preplacement 
offer to 
shortlist 
students
Opportunity to 
work in Core 
Product 
development 
company
2
There is a Way To Do it Better – Find It!

3
Problem Statement 1: 
Description : Cars and small commercial vehicles with higher floor heights often use fixed footsteps 
that reduce ground clearance and are prone to damage on uneven roads. There is a need for a 
compact and reliable footstep system that provides safe entry and exit without remaining permanently 
exposed. This project aims to develop a practical retractable footstep mechanism that deploys when 
door is opened and retracts when its closed, improving accessibility, safety, and vehicle usability.
Scope : 1. Design concept must not use any motor to deploy or retract the footstep.
2. Concepts can be presented in form of CAD models or drawings.
3. Concepts must be supported with detailed analysis.
Note - Concepts would be judged basis novelty, simplicity, form-factor and cost-effectiveness.
Design a simple, robust and cost-effective 
retractable footstep for cars and small 
Commercial Vehicles

4
Problem Statement 2: 
Description : When riders listen to music through helmet-integrated speakers, their ability to hear 
surrounding vehicle horns is significantly reduced, increasing the risk of accidents. This concept 
proposes a smart helmet with a horn detection mechanism that identifies external honking sounds and 
alerts the rider. The system aims to maintain rider awareness and safety without interrupting the 
listening experience.
Scope : 1. Clear and detailed description of the horn detection mechanism concept must be 
presented.
2. Concepts must be supported through mathematical calculation, analysis and/or simulations.
3. The mechanism must be conceptualized for the real time operation.
Note - Concepts would be judged basis novelty, simplicity, form-factor and cost-effectiveness.
Develop a cost effective and real time horn 
detection mechanism in a smart helmet


5
Problem Statement 3: 
Description : Two-wheeler riders are highly vulnerable to road risks due to exposure, traffic density, 
and riding habits. An accurate driving behavior score helps objectively assess riding patterns such as 
speed control, braking, acceleration,  maneuvering, etc. Reliable scoring is essential to identify unsafe 
behaviors, promote responsible riding, support rider training, and enable fair evaluation for safety 
programs, insurance benefits, and smart mobility systems.
Scope : 1. Logic behind “how this behavior scoring methodology is accurate and reliable” must be 
presented.
2. Clear and detailed description of the driving behavior score, sensors used, data logging, etc. must 
be presented.
3. Concepts must be supported through mathematical calculation, analysis and/or simulations.
4. The mechanism must be conceptualized for the real time operation.
Note - Concepts would be judged basis novelty, simplicity, form-factor and cost-effectiveness.
Accurate calculation of a driving behavior 
score on a two-wheeler


6
Problem Statement 4: 
Description : In Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motors (PMSMs), the temperature of the permanent 
magnet directly affects motor efficiency, torque capability, and long-term reliability. Excessive magnet 
temperature can lead to irreversible demagnetization and performance degradation, while direct 
temperature measurement of the rotor magnet is difficult due to its rotating and enclosed nature. 
Therefore, accurate online temperature estimation is essential to monitor magnet health in real time, 
enable safe control strategies, prevent thermal damage, and ensure reliable operation of PMSMs, 
especially in high-performance and electric vehicle applications
Scope : 1. Clear and detailed description of temperature estimation of permanent magnet, data 
logging, etc. must be presented.
3. Concepts must be supported through mathematical calculation, analysis and/or simulations.
4. The mechanism must be conceptualized for the real time operation.
Note - Concepts would be judged basis novelty, simplicity, form-factor and cost-effectiveness.
Online direct/indirect 
measurement/estimation of permanent 
magnet temperature in PMSM


7
Problem Statement 5: 
Description : For the given problem, suggest the appropriate type and number of vents or air 
breathers required for the removal of condensate (condensed moisture) formed due to a sudden drop 
in outside temperature. The design should ensure that the maximum time required for condensate 
removal does not exceed 30 minutes. Assume suitable equations/ properties and refer heat transfer 
books. Refer the vents details mentioned below .
Scope : Excel sheet/ MATLAB code / AI/ML model formulas to quickly decide on condensate formed 
and breather/vent sections .
Moisture removal from closed box


8
Problem Statement 6: 
Description : The basic requirement by Automotive lighting systems are “Low beam” for city/village 
low speed drive & “High Beam” for highspeed driving. 
But the in current condition the road-users are using High beams everywhere making other road users 
like upcoming & ongoing vehicles, pedestrians suffering off glare. This makes uncomfortable situation 
lands into serious accidents counting on life. Using advanced technologies this concern can be 
addressed by optimizing the headlamp operating condition
Scope : Effective operating of Main beams of Headlamps for Glare free lighting & to identify or help to 
identify the poor road conditions earlier; like pat-holes, Unknown obstacles, stray animals, 
Pedestrians, Road barriers, Diversion barricades.
How can automotive lighting systems 
be optimized for poor road infrastructure 
and high glare conditions in India


9
Problem Statement 7: 
Description : LEDs have rapidly replaced halogen and HID technologies across headlamps, DRLs, and 
rear lamps. Their advantages are well established: higher energy efficiency, longer life, faster 
response times, compact packaging, and significantly greater design freedom.
Adaptive technologies needs high performance LEDs & the additional precise computing & control 
system integration on vehicles for operating it. High end software support is another challenge. With 
such requirements currently its quite costly matter to implement on mass production. 
Making it cost down & in the affordable range will allow the OEs to use it on mass production vehicles.
Scope : Efficient design of main beams on Headlamps
How can advanced LED and adaptive 
lighting technologies be made affordable 
for mass-market vehicles in India?


10
Problem Statement 8: 
Description : With global average temperatures rising and peaks reaching newer records, a parked car, especially for a
longer duration under direct sunlight, in tropical regions, essentially becomes as hot chamber. With higher temperatures,
come higher VOCs (not only from the car but also from the objects inside the car). There have been recorded instances
of people forgetting pets & even infants in locked vehicles in some cases. The durability of the under the hood parts is also
challenged. There is a need for thermal environment management solutions for parked cars.
A secondary advantage of this is the reduced energy expense on bringing the cabin temperature down after starting the
car.
Scope :
1. Self explanatory working principle for solution on to maintain ambient temperature of car in parked condition.
2. Add schematics / Design concept to explain idea.
3. Explain why your solution is more reliable , cost effective , safe for human & eco friendly sustainable solution .
4.   Solution should be provided considering Vehicle is in OFF condition / parked condition  (NO battery / NO electric 
connection available in parked condition)   
Solution for vehicle cabin overheating in 
parked condition


11
Problem Statement 9: 
AI-Driven Design Intelligence for Early-
Stage CAD Validation
Description : In current product development workflows, design engineers rely extensively on manual verification to 
ensure compliance with established design standards. This process is time-consuming, prone to human error, and highly 
dependent on individual expertise. As a result, design gaps and non-compliance issues are often identified late in the 
development cycle, leading to rework, project delays, and reduced overall efficiency.
There is a need for an intelligent system that supports engineers during the design phase by automatically validating designs
against standard guidelines and performing real-time checks within the CAD environment. Such an AI-assisted solution 
should enable early detection of design issues, improve overall design quality, reduce iteration cycles, and ensure accurate 
product development.
Scope : Design and develop a comprehensive software/Program architecture to achieve the following objectives,
AI-Integrated CAD Assistance:- Development of a module that integrates with CAD tools to analyse designs in real time 
and provide actionable insights.
Automated Design Validation:- The system should automatically detect deviations, inconsistencies, and potential risks, 
highlight them within the design, and generate detailed validation reports.

Team members 
Names
Engineering 
Specialisation Graduating year College 
Names
Confidential
Team Name : 
12

[Member 1 name] [Member 2 Name] [Member 3 
Name]
Any projects you’ve 
worked on
Past Hackathon 
experiences
Accolades or awards 
that you have received
Other details (If any)
Tell Us Bit About Yourself
13

Your Selected Problem Statement
• Give us an overview of your solution
• Process Flow (if applicable)
• Uniqueness of your solution
14

Design Details
• Market Research and Literature survey
• Flow chart/ block diagrams
• Details with Pictures, Videos of simulations, 
calculation etc.
• Working Principle
• Simulations/Proto sample
• Benchmarking
• Innovation/improvement over existing solution
15

Major Risk And Mitigation 
• Risks to realise the concept
• Mitigation
16

Business Potential 
• Share details of Business Potential
• Market Potential/Demand
17

Plan And Budget Needed
• Major Milestones and Timelines to realize the 
concept
• Budget needed to develop a prototype of this 
concept
18

